https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-6806 Add decisionStrategy Placement (#6069)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/cluster_lifecycle/placement_decision.adoc

      reason: ''
----

[#placement-decisionstrategy]
== Dividing _PlacementDecision_ into groups by using _decisionStrategy_

> You can use the `decisionStrategy` spec in a `Placement` to divide the `PlacementDecision` you created into groups and define the number of clusters in each group.

Reviewer: I recommend writing out spec or you can monospace it : `spec`
```suggestion
You can use the `decisionStrategy` specification in a `Placement` to divide the `PlacementDecision` resource that you created into groups and define the number of clusters in each group.
```

  namespace: default
spec:
  clusterSets:
    - global
  decisionStrategy:
    groupStrategy:
      clustersPerDecisionGroup: 150 <1>
      decisionGroups: <2>
      - groupName: prod-canary-west <3>
        groupClusterSelector: <4>
          labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: prod-canary-west
                operator: Exists
      - groupName: prod-canary-east
        groupClusterSelector:
          labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: prod-canary-east
                operator: Exists
----

<1> A specific number or percentage of the total selected clusters 
<2> A list of predefined groups for adding decision results. Decision groups are initially made based on the `decisionGroups` field. Clusters that are not included in `decisionGroups` are then divided to other decision groups. The number of cluster in each decision group must be lower than the value of `clustersPerDecisionGroup`.
<3> The name that is added as the value of the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/decision-group-name` label key of the `PlacementDecision` you created.
<4> Defines the `labelSelector` to select a cluster subset by using a label.

> After defining the decision strategy, the `Placement` `status` lists the group result, including the decision group name and index, cluster count, and the corresponding `PlacementDecision` names. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you define the decision strategy, the `Placement` `status` lists the group result, including the decision group name and index, cluster count, and the corresponding `PlacementDecision` names. See the following example:
```

[source,yaml]
----
status:
  decisionGroups:
  - clusterCount: 10
    decisionGroupIndex: 0
    decisionGroupName: prod-canary-west
    decisions:
    - placement1-decision-1
  - clusterCount: 10
    decisionGroupIndex: 1
    decisionGroupName: prod-canary-east
    decisions:
    - placement1-decision-2
  - clusterCount: 150
    decisionGroupIndex: 2
    decisionGroupName: ""
    decisions:
    - placement1-decision-3
    - placement1-decision-4
  - clusterCount: 140
    decisionGroupIndex: 3
    decisionGroupName: ""
    decisions:
    - placement1-decision-5
    - placement1-decision-6
  numberOfSelectedClusters: 310
----

The `PlacementDecision` has the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/decision-group-name` 

> and `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/decision-group-index` labels to indicate which grooup name and group index it belongs to. See the following example:

Reviewer 2: typo , grooup should be group.

Author: Good catch, fixed!
